# üç∫ Beer

## June 28, 2021, Poisson Blanc

<div class="slide">

* !P2740407
* !P2740408
* !P2740410

</div>

## June 14, 2020, Larouche

Nothing crazy but it's a beer pic, so it goes here. üòõ

!P2690091

## February 5, 2020, Tremblant

<div class="slide">

* !P2660773 "Y√©ti cach√©."
* !P2660775 "Y√©ti d√©gag√©."
* !P2660779 "Y√©ti 2:3."
* !P2660783 "Y√©ti Atomic."
* !P2660786 "Y√©ti Atomic wider."

</div>

Moar beer is always nice. Blonde d'√©t√© en plein hiver.

<div class="slide">

* !P2660839
* !P2660847

</div>

## October 15, 2019, Busbud

Ping Pong IPA by Pixel microbrewery, from the Busbud office during my
last week.

<div class="slide">

* !P2650973
* !P2650979
* !P2660025

</div>

## October 13, 2019, Ouareau Forest

Akua by Le Bilboquet, an hibiscus IPA.

<div class="slide">

* !P2650911
* !P2650921

</div>

## August 31, 2019, Indian Head, Adirondacks

Les Brasseurs RJ's new Rocket NEIPA. Nothing fancy, just a good NEIPA!
That view though.

!P2650124

## August 18, 2019, Poisson Blanc

Boldwin's Massif des Roses, playing with long exposure and light
painting.

!P2640833-Edit

## July 20, 2019, Poisson Blanc

Chronique de Mai by Benelux, for my birthday!

!P2640365

## June 26, 2019, Carleton, Gasp√©sie

Super shitty weather, still deserve my beer on top of the hike. Can't
have a view though because the fog is super thick. The Kiwiberry by Le
Naufrageur, brewery of the same city. Extremely good smoothie ale with
kiwi and strawberries.

!P2640232

## June 25, 2019, Mont Sainte-Anne, Gasp√©sie

Took the Caribou Sure No.3 by Pit Caribou to the top of Mont Sainte-Anne
in Perc√©, Gasp√©sie.

This beer is fancy as fuck, Dunham style, it's an assembly of sour beer
and a Berliner Weisse, aged 18 months in pinot noir casks with extra
hops, peaches and camerises.

Tasty as fuck, loved it.

!P2640141

## June 22, 2019, Mont Albert, Gasp√©sie

Always drinking local, this Cuivr√©e au th√© by La Barberie on top of Mont
Albert in the middle of Gaspesie National Park.

<div class="slide">

* !P2630655
* !P2630667
* !P2630672

</div>

## December 23, 2018, Mont Saint-Hilaire

Took a homebrew on top of Mont Saint-Hilaire! The first version of the
Session NEIPAnanas, a pineapple NEIPA.

!P2600529

## November 26, 2018, Blow Me Down, Newfoundland

Had another one of those, this time to celebrate summiting the Blow Me
Down trail. Great beer, fantastic views.

!P2600201

## November 25, 2018, Trout River Pond, Newfoundland

Same spot, different beer. We ended the hike with that British IPA by
Quidi Vidi.

!P2600006
!P2590992

## November 25, 2018, Trout River Pond, Newfoundland

Another one of those big cans by Western Newfoundland Brewing Co., this
time an Oat Heavy Pale Ale called Green Gardens Haze. Super strong
cereal taste, I loved it.

I also love the fact they recommend on the label, to drink half the
can, fish a trout, put the trout in the can, put the can on the fire,
and eat the so cooked trout with another can of the same beer. Sadly, I
didn't get to try this recipe as we didn't manage to fish a trout.

!P2590915
!P2590918
!P2590929

## November 24, 2018, Gros Morne, Newfoundland

While we couldn't go to the summit with the gear we had in those
conditions, was still enjoyable to drink that 1892 Traditional Ale by
Quidi Vidi brewery during the hike. It was so cold that some ice formed
inside the can so we definitely didn't experience the full taste profile
of that beer.

!P2590848

## November 24, 2018, Rocky Harbour, Newfoundland

Got my hand on some western Newfoundland 1 L tall cans of extra malted
oat heavy beers. Those were fucking delicious and I wish I could find
them in Montreal.

This one is the Wild Cove Old World Pub Ale, a cream ale by Western
Newfoundland Brewing Co.

!P2590794

## November 23, 2018, Skerwink, Newfoundland

Quidi Vidi's Mummer's Brew on top of Skerwink hike. Super windy day, was
a huge pain in the ass to take pictures of that beer because the wind
would actually blow it down all the time. Also it was like 10
centimeters away from a huge cliff and I was 10 centimeters away from
the beer, which if you make the math, is still pretty fucking close from
the cliff.

!P2590646
!P2590667

## November 21, 2018, Quidi Vidi Harbour, Newfoundland

Open Saison On Crabapple by Quidi Vidi brewery. Can hardly drink more
local than that.

!P2590013

## October 13, 2018, Tremblant

Dieu du Ciel's √ât√© Indien, an *extremely* tasty mango beer that I'm a
big fan of, from the top of Tremblant.

!P2580426

## October 8, 2018, Bromont

Ironically, drinking Sutton Brou√´rie's Dindon Sauvage on top of Bromont.
A dry hopped sarrasin Brett ale brewed in collaboration with Dieu du
Ciel. The taste of this beer reminds me for some reason of the
feeling/smell of picking raspberries in the mountain when I was a kid,
and I'm sad it was a seasonal beer and they never brewed more of it.

!P2580168
!P2580211

## July 1, 2018, Poisson Blanc

Unibroue's √âph√©m√®re Bleuet on the lake.

!P2570135

## June 2, 2018, Col de la Charmette, Chartreuse

G√©n√©pi beer by the Brasserie du Mont-Blanc. You can't have a beer more
alpine than that.

!P2560574

## May 28, 2018, Dent de Crolles

Savored this Grimbergen Alliance de P√™ches after hiking the Dent de
Crolles next to Grenoble. Real tasty.

!P2560317

## May 24, 2018, Cassis

Was sipping on that blond Affligem while boating around the Calanques. I
spent more time on that shot that I'm willing to admit.

!P2550978-Edit

## May 5, 2018, Vauvenargues, Provence

That iconic Leffe Ruby in the middle of Provence, next to waterfalls.
Probably one of my favorite red beer, such a great balance between
fruitness, woodsiness, without being too sweet.

!P2540952

## March 3, 2018, Magog

Again in Magog, took a couple shots of that Belle Gueule Brassin des
F√™tes in front a waterfall. First one with a long exposure, second one
with a very fast one.

!P2540432
!P2540452

## January 14, 2018, Magog

Belle Gueule Hefeweizen on the iced Magog lake. Refreshing, even though
we didn't really need to be refreshed after that hike in snowshoes.

!P1080451

## September 7, 2017, Croix de Belledonne

Took that good old blond Leffe all the way up the Croix de Belledonne,
the biggest summit around Grenoble. Tastes fantastic at 3000 meters of
elevation.

!P1060085
!P1060261

## September 6, 2017, Lac de Monteynard

Classic Affligem in the lake.

!P1050987

## August 23, 2017, Ermitage Saint-Jean du Puy

Nice good Leffe Triple on top of the hike in the middle of Provence.
Tasty, strong and refreshing at the same time. Can't go wrong with
Belgian beer.

!P1040665


## July 23, 2017, Big Beehive, Banff

Together with the Summer Shandy box, we also got a box of those Coors
Banquet. Not a great beer, but the spectacular view made it taste much
better than it should have.

!P1030641

## July 19, 2017, Centennial Ridge, Banff

Amazing hike in the Canadian Rockies, well deserved beer on top. For the
story, we grabbed a huge box of those Leinenkugel's Summer Shandy at the
duty free when crossing the border back to Canada, and I can tell you
they were cheap as fuck, and super tasty and refreshing.

!P1030125

## June 18, 2017, Sainte-Marguerite waterfalls

Went to the waterfalls with a couple friends. Classic Bor√©ale Rousse,
but great background.

!P1000747
