# 🏔 Road trip from Montreal to Vancouver
July 2017

## Day 1

After getting breakfast at Timmy's in the morning, mandatory stop for
properly starting an adventure, we drove from Montreal, going West
without any plan.

We crossed the border to the states. Us, two dudes, in a van, carrying a
bunch of climbing gear, going "West" for "a couple days", and without a
precise address of where we're going to sleep at night. While all of
this is *about fine*, no need to say that they instantly had us pull
over to check the van for drugs, as even though we told them we weren't
carrying any, they insisted that we did.

After they go through the whole van and confirmed that we were actually
telling the truth, we keep going, and randomly stopped in Dunkirk when
it gets late, to crash for the night.

## Day 2

!P1010912
!P1010916
!P1010929
!P1010932
!P1010943
!P1010945

We kept driving West, stopped for gas in Barcelona (state of New York,
as opposed to Spain). There's a bunch of bikers riding and I manage to
quickly take a picture. I've now been dreaming to ride motorcycles for
more than 20 years.

!P1010950

We continued driving, now in the state of Ohio, we did a stop in
Cleveland where I didn't take pictures, but where we had a monstrous (as
in extremely and dauntingly large) apple fritter, which must have served
as lunch and dinner for the both of us.

We keep going by Indiana, and stopped for a bit at the Indiana Dunes
National Lakeshore as suggested by a friend. The views were beautiful,
and the water of Lake Michigan, while substantially cold, was bearable
enough for us to dip.

!P1010955
!P1010958-Edit
!P1010961
!P1010967
!P1010986
!P1010991
!P1010993
!P1020013
!P1020016
!P1020025
!P1020037
!P1020046
!P1020050
!P1020058
!P1020060
!P1020065

We keep going in the Illinois state, where we drive around Chicago as
the sun is setting.

!P1020077
!P1020112
!P1020139
!P1020146
!P1020152
!P1020171
!P1020188
!P1020191

When it gets really late, we start to look at a place to park the van
for the night. We search for green and blue spots on the map which
usually is a good sign that there's something more than asphalt and
concrete to see.

We finally find a decent spot in a park, in a random village somewhere
in Cherry Valley, just next to a river. Exhausted, we go to bed, after I
take a couple long exposure shots, and maybe a couple comforting shots
of the Chartreuse bottle I brought with us.

!P1020209

## Day 3

At 3 in the morning, we're waken up by the soft, delightful flare of a
Maglite as well as heavy knocks on the van door. We go out of the van in
pyjamas, to discover two police cars high beams on and a handful of
police officers *sur le qui-vive*. When they see we're just two harmless
(and half asleep) campers, they kindly ask us to move the van away as
we're not allowed to camp there. They carefully watch us drive away, and
we finish the night parked on the side of a street in the village.

The next day, we drive to Madison, and have brunch at Monty's Blue Plate
Diner. The food was delicious, and Blue, the van, fitted perfectly in
the landscape.

!P1020225
!P1020231

We cross to Wisconsin and make a stop at Castle Rock Lake for a quick
swim, but need to get going so we can be in Minneapolis, Minnesota for
the night.

## Day 4

We keep going West, then North, by North Dakota.

!P1020375
!P1020397
!P1020499

A bit before sunset, we cross back to Saskatchewan, Canada, where we get
dirt cheap 24 packs of Coors Banquet and Leinenkugel's Summer Shandy at
the duty free. More on those later.

We drive for a couple more minutes to the city of Estevan, and keep
going a little bit more find a spot on an empty dirt road in the middle
of the canola fields. There's absolutely nobody around in a radius of
several kilometers. At that point, we had driven 1050 km since we left
from Saint Paul, Minnesota in the morning.

!P1020556
!P1020571 "The wheat king of the prairies."
!P1020572
!P1020597

We have a couple of those beers there, when we see a Jeep driving on the
path we're parked next to. A guy gets out to say hi. As we start
talking, we offer him a beer, and he tell us stories about the many road
trips he did across Canada with his Jeep.

He leaves us when he's done drinking his beer, and we keep chilling
there for the night.

!P1020604

## Day 5

The next morning, we go for a drive around the dirt paths of
Saskatchewan and go for quick hikes where we get to see pretty landscapes.

!P1020618
!P1020634-Edit
!P1020652
!P1020654

Little did we know, the alternator belt of the van broke a little while
ago and we would soon be out of battery. We could easily have stayed
stuck in the middle of nowhere, Saskatchewan, on a random dirt path with
nobody for miles around.

Luckily, the battery held for another hour or so. We noticed the radio
would have a harder and harder time playing, but couldn't tell what was
wrong. We saw some hitchhikers on the side of the highway and decided to pick
them up. We stop and go out of the van to help them put their stuff
inside. When we're ready to go, the van won't start.

We figure it's a battery issue, and try to stop other cars to ask for a
jump start. After what felt like a pretty long time, and seeing dozens
of cars go by without stopping, a truck stops and gives us a jump start.
We're able to get the engine running again, and we're quickly back on
the road. While it hardly makes sense, we hope that it was just a one
time issue and that the alternator will just recharge the battery as we
drive.

We drive for a bit, but we reach a point where we're nearly out of gas,
and find a gas station. At that point, the radio completely stopped
working and we noticed the signal lights were busted as well. As we
feared, after putting gas, the van wouldn't start again. We asked around
for another jump start to get going. As we open the hood, when looking a
bit more carefully, we figure the alternator belt is just gone and
that's why the battery isn't getting recharged. We had a spare
alternator belt in the van but had no idea how to set it up. We decide
to head to a garage to get it replaced.

!P1020671

Since it would take hours before they would start working on the van, we
say bye to our hitchhikers, and go get a coffee inside. Once the belt
replaced and the battery charged, we get going again, relieved of all
those problems, happy and the mind free.

We drive all the way to Alberta, but after a couple hundred of
kilometers, we notice that the music is going away again and that the
signal lights are no longer working. Bad sign. At least, as long as we
don't stop the engine, we're good to go, but if we stop or if it dies
for some reason, we'd be stuck again. We target a Canadian Tire in
Brooks, where we arrive in the evening. The auto parts and service is
closed already, so we go get some Domino's Pizza a couple blocks away
(by the way they have Halifax donair meat and sauce in Domino's in
Alberta), and we crash on the parking for the night.

## Day 6

The next morning, we try to get the van fixed again but the quote was
insane so we decided to attempt to fix it ourselves. The new belt was
still present but got pretty loose, so we try tightening it again and
get another jump start, hoping after some driving the belt holds and is
tight enough to recharge the battery.

!P1020679

We drive around Calgary, and keep going until Banff. We stop in Canmore,
and go for a hike in what I believe was Goat Mountain next to Spray
Lakes Reservoir.

!P1020772
!P1020831
!P1020865
!P1020882
!P1020883

When we get back from the hike, a couple posing for wedding pictures
right in front of the lake (and the van). That was indeed a sweet spot.

We then get a camping spot at Spray Lakes West Campground and spend the
night there. I can sure say the view in the morning was nice.

## Day 7

!P1020927
!P1020945

We hike Centennial Ridge, which is apparently the highest maintained
trail in the Canadian Rockies. The views were incredible and definitely
worth the 1350 meters of elevation.

!P1020957
!P1020995

We got welcomed at the summit by many chipmunks that weren't afraid at
all and would get really close to us.

!P1030037
!P1030100
!P1030112
!P1030119

We enjoyed a Summer Shandy on the top of the mountain, savouring the
views, before starting the hike down.

!P1030125 "Le Summer Shandy bien mérité on top of the Canadian Rockies."
!P1030131

We drove to the city of Banff and spent the night there. The next
morning, wandered a bit around the city.

## Day 8

!P1030160 "Banff classic shot."

We then went climbing on [Sunshine Rock](https://www.thecrag.com/climbing/canada/alberta/banff/area/547764147),
which was great but ironically it started in the middle of the day and
we had to stop climbing.

As it was my birthday, we went back to Banff and had dinner at The Keg.
We then spent the night in the van parked right in front of the
restaurant. How convenient!

## Day 9

We went climbing in Tunnel Mountain. The views were breathtaking,
especially while on the cliffs.

!P1030268
!P1030313

We then met with some friends from Calgary, and found a camping for the
night.

## Day 10

In the morning, we wake up to hundreds of elks walking around. I
couldn't believe my eyes.

!P1030391

Once the elks gone, our friends pulled out **a couch** and a barbecue
from their van, so we had breakfast like this in the forest.

!P1030407 "Casual breakfast BBQ."

While they were going back to Calgary, we went back to Tunnel Mountain,
but this time with mountain bikes.

!P1030408
!P1030413-Edit
!P1030426

I eventually had a pretty stupid fall which left me with a considerable
wound on my back and a teared tank top. I couldn't do much right then,
so we just kept biking for the rest of the day. At night, I tried to
clean it up in the bathroom of a Tim Horton's, and used some paper
towels and tape to make a dressing. Because I couldn't get stitches, it
eventually turned into a pretty bad scar. While I don't have any
tattoos, I like to say scars from such adventures are kind of the same
thing to me.

## Day 11

The next morning, we headed to the notorious Lake Louise, and climbed
the [outhouse area](https://www.thecrag.com/climbing/canada/lake-louise/area/11921929)
during the day.

!P1030527

We then went back to the van to drop our gear, and because we still had
a couple hours of sunlight, decided to hike Big Beehive.

!P1030595

We were literally alone in the mountain, and we could see a storm
forming in the sky as we arrived at the top. The scenery was unreal.

!P1030630
!P1030635

It was the perfect time to enjoy a little Coors Banquet.

!P1030641 "La Coors Banquet des montagnes."

We then went back down doing a loop by Lake Agnes. It was now pretty
much night time, and when we started to get anxious about the bears that
we knew are present in the area. Luckily, we didn't meet any. When we
went back to the van, the night was already pretty advanced.

!P1030672

We drove the van back to the Lake Louise village, more precisely the
village market, so we would be able to get groceries the next morning.
After doing groceries, we tried to start the van but it was again out of
battery.

We didn't have much time to deal with the van. We tightened again the
alternator belt, found someone to jump start the van, and parked it
behind a gas station where we knew a bunch of campers were staying as
well.

## Day 12

Our next target was Moraine Lake, and we wanted to hike to it from Lake
Louise. We took a bus there so that we wouldn't have to bother with the
van, as we would have to hitchhike back and the village which was more
convenient than Lake Louise itself.

We started in what seemed to be called Paradise Valley, which definitely
did deserve its name.

!P1030692
!P1030701
!P1030737

We keep hiking for a while in the direction of Moraine Lake, and as the
day goes by, the path takes us higher and higher in the mountains, while
we expected the hike to be mostly flat. A couple hours later, as we
start to wonder if we're getting lost, the path slowly disappears and
leaves us in a giant scree of loose rocks.

While we're getting pressured by the limited hours of daylight left,
we're somewhat confident that we'll find Moraine Lake on the other side,
so we decide to scale it.

We later learnt that this scree was Sentinel Pass on Mount Temple, with
1250 meters of elevation. The views we had up there were definitely
worth the struggle.

!P1030756
!P1030767
!P1030768
!P1030770
!P1030772
!P1030773
!P1030781
!P1030788
!P1030793
!P1030804
!P1030837

We kept going on the other side, this time on the way down, and as
expected, reach Moraine Lake a bit before sunset.

!P1030869

We hitchhiked back to the village, with the plan to get some driving in
during the night, but the van was again out of battery. It was pretty
late already, we were really tired, and we couldn't find anybody around
to give us a jump start, so we decided to crash there and wait for the
next day.

## Day 13

After attempting to tightened the belt one more time and getting an
umpteenth jump start, we drive North to Jasper. While we don't have time
to stop along the road to hike, just the views from the road are
impressive.

!P1030884
!P1030892-Edit
!P1030905-Edit
!P1030923
!P1030949
!P1030966

Everything goes well until we need to stop for gas. At that point, every
time we stop the van, we're worried it won't start again. And indeed, it
does not, so we get another jump start and drive to the closest garage,
which is in Valemount, a bit more than a hundred kilometers away,
outside of the Jasper (also, in British Columbia).

After inspecting the van and charging the batteries, the mechanic tells
us that one of the batteries is "toast" and we need to get another one.
He kindly tells us we're better off going to the Lordco in town and
replacing it ourselves, so that's what we do.

!P1040005 "The mechanic."

We go again with a brand new battery, thinking the van issues are
finally over. After driving for the rest of the day, we make it to
Kamloops, where we stop for groceries. When we're done, we hold our
breath as every time we start the van, and to our despair, it won't
start. But this time, it sounds different than usual, not as if the
battery was dead, but more like if the engine was flooded. There's many
ways described online to start an engine in that case, including waiting
for a couple hours that the gas evaporates and trying again, but none of
them worked, so we crashed on the parking lot of the grocery store for
the night, hoping the night gives enough time for the gas to fully
evaporate.

## Day 14

Sadly, the next morning we still can't start it, and after a dozen of
tries, we give up and call CAA. Less than an hour later, a CAA agent
comes and we explain him the situation. He gets in the van and tries to
start it, and it instantly works. We couldn't believe it.

Less than an hour later, when we're about to stop for gas in Logan Lake,
the van dies right in front of the gas station. Before we even ask, a
bunch of villagers come see what's up and offer help. One of them gets
his truck to give us a jump start, and show us the path to the closest
open garage in the village.

The mechanic figured it wasn't a problem with the battery but the
alternator belt was still busted, and we needed a new one. Luckily, he
had a compatible one in stock. To save costs, we attempted to install it
ourselves, but while manipulating parts under the hood to be able to get
the belt through, we start to notice something's leaking, and quickly
need the mechanic help to manage the situation.

Turns out we accidentally perforated the radiator and all the cooling
liquid was spilling. This actually required replacing the whole
radiator, which they didn't have in stock, but they might be able to
order it for the afternoon, so we wait there and have lunch in front of
the garage, down in the mouth.

They effectively received the radiator in the afternoon and replaced it,
as well as the belt. According to the mechanic, the radiator was really
old and would probably have had trouble keeping the engine at a
reasonable temperature while we drive through the high mountains passes
on the Coquihalla Highway on the way to Vancouver, so breaking the
radiator while fucking around under the hood might have saved us from
overheating the engine. I'll take it.

We drive for the rest of the day and finally make it to Vancouver.

!P1040038-Edit

## Day 15

Dipping at English Bay Beach.

!P1040049-Edit
!P1040054

In the evening we go for a walk around Stanley Park, where we get to see
the Siwash Rock.

!P1040076-Edit

We walk around the Lions Gate Bridge while the sun is going down.

!P1040115
!P1040139

We then walk back to the van looking at Vancouver by night.

!P1040145

Turns out the van wouldn't start one more time, and there was nobody
around, so we spent the night in Stanley Park.

## Day 16

We get a jump start to get going, and while we drive in town, the engine
just dies and we're stuck on the side of the road. We call CAA and get
towed to a garage.

!P1040164

The van needs to stays at the garage until the end of the day if we're
luck. Since we can't go very far, we wander in the Commercial Drive area
for the day.

We're lucky and the van is repaired right before the garage closes. It
turned to be a problem with the alternator rectifier, and we didn't have
any issue with the van after then.

!P1040167
!P1040174

## Day 17

We hike the Lions.

!P1040186
!P1040198

We spend the night at the Squamish Spit.

## Day 18

!P1040201

We then do the Sea to Summit hike, still in Squamish.

!P1040208
!P1040213
!P1040218

We spend again the night on the Spit. The sky is perfect for shooting
the milky way.

!P1040231
!P1040237

## Day 19

We planned to climb the Stawamus Chief, but we realized it's only trad
climbing and we only were equipped and trained for sport.


!P1040246-Edit

We found some climbing to do in [Murrin Park](https://www.thecrag.com/climbing/canada/squamish/murrin-park)
instead.

Finally, I flew back the next day, the head full of adventures, with the
idea of coming back to live in Vancouver.

!P1040295
